README.md, before:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/tree/master)
[![Slack](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com/badge.svg)](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com)
[![Kubectl](https://img.shields.io/badge/kubectl-Available-green.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/master/kubernetes.yml)
# What is Apache Solr?

> Solr is the popular, blazing-fast, open source enterprise search platform built on Apache Lucene.

[http://lucene.apache.org/solr/](http://lucene.apache.org/solr/)

# TL;DR;

```bash
docker run --name solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

## Docker Compose

```
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
```

# Why use Bitnami Images?

* Bitnami closely tracks upstream source changes and promptly publishes new versions of this image using our automated systems.
* With Bitnami images the latest bug fixes and features are available as soon as possible.
* Bitnami containers, virtual machines and cloud images use the same components and configuration approach - making it easy to switch between formats based on your project needs.
* Bitnami images are built on CircleCI and automatically pushed to the Docker Hub.
* All our images are based on [minideb](https://github.com/bitnami/minideb) a minimalist Debian based container image which gives you a small base container image and the familiarity of a leading linux distribution.

# Get this image

The recommended way to get the Bitnami solr Docker Image is to pull the prebuilt image from the [Docker Hub Registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/solr).

```bash
docker pull bitnami/solr:latest
```

To use a specific version, you can pull a versioned tag. You can view the [list of available versions](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/solr/tags/) in the Docker Hub Registry.

```bash
docker pull bitnami/solr:[TAG]
```

If you wish, you can also build the image yourself.

```bash
docker build -t bitnami/solr:latest https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr.git
```

# Persisting your application

If you remove every container and volume all your data will be lost, and the next time you run the image the application will be reinitialized. To avoid this loss of data, you should mount a volume that will persist even after the container is removed. If you are using docker-compose your data will be persistent as long as you don't remove `application_data` data volumes. If you have run the containers manually or you want to mount the folders with persistent data in your host follow the next steps:

> **Note!** If you have already started using your application, follow the steps on [backing](#backing-up-your-container) up to pull the data from your running container down to your host.

The image exposes a volume at `/bitnami/solr` for the solr data and configurations. For persistence you can mount a directory at this location from your host. If the mounted directory is empty, it will be initialized on the first run.

```bash
docker run -v /path/to/solr-persistence:/bitnami/solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  volumes:
    - /path/to/solr-persistence:/bitnami/solr
```

# Connecting to other containers

Using [Docker container networking](https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/networking/), a MariaDB server running inside a container can easily be accessed by your application containers.

Containers attached to the same network can communicate with each other using the container name as the hostname.

## Using the Command Line

### Step 1: Create a network

```bash
$ docker network create solr-network --driver bridge
```

### Step 2: Launch the solr container within your network

Use the `--network <NETWORK>` argument to the `docker run` command to attach the container to the `solr-network` network.

```bash
docker run --name solr-node1 --network solr-network bitnami/solr:latest
```

### Step 3: Run another containers

We can launch another containers using the same flag (`--network NETWORK`) in the `docker run` command. If you also set a name to your container, you will be able to use it as hostname in your network.


## Using Docker Compose

When not specified, Docker Compose automatically sets up a new network and attaches all deployed services to that network. However, we will explicitly define a new bridge network named solr-network.

```yaml
version: '2'

networks:
  solr-network:
    driver: bridge

services:
  solr-node1:
    image: bitnami/solr:latest
    networks:
      - solr-network
    ports:
      - '8983:8983'
  solr-node2:
    image: bitnami/solr:latest
    networks:
      - solr-network
    ports:
      - '8984:8984'
```

Then, launch the containers using:

```bash
$ docker-compose up -d
```


# Configuration

## Environment variables

When you start the solr image, you can adjust the configuration of the instance by passing one or more environment variables either on the docker-compose file or on the docker run command line. The following environment values are provided to custom Solr:

- `SOLR_PORT`: Port used by Solr server. Default: **8983**
- `SOLR_SERVER_DIRECTORY`: Specify the Solr server directory. Default: **server**
- `SOLR_CORE`: Core name to create at first run. By default, it will not create a core. (E.g.: '**my_core**')
- `SOLR_CORE_CONF_DIR`: Configuration directory to copy when creating a new core. Default: **data_driven_schema_configs**

### Specifying Environment Variables using Docker Compose

```yaml
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  environment:
    - SOLR_CORE=my_core
```

### Specifying Environment Variables on the Docker command line

```bash
$ docker run -d -e SOLR_CORE=my_core --name solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

## Using your Apache Solr Cores configuration files

In order to load your own configuration files, you will have to make them available to the container. You can do it mounting a [volume](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/) in the desired location and setting the environment variable with the customized value (as it is pointed above, the default value is **data_driven_schema_configs**).

### Using Docker Compose

```yaml
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  environment:
    - SOLR_CORE_CONF_DIR=/path/to/your/confDir
  volumes:
    - '/local/path/to/your/confDir:/container/path/to/your/confDir'
```

# Logging

The Bitnami solr Docker image sends the container logs to the `stdout`. To view the logs:

```bash
docker logs solr
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose logs solr
```

You can configure the containers [logging driver](https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/logging/overview/) using the `--log-driver` option if you wish to consume the container logs differently. In the default configuration docker uses the `json-file` driver.

# Maintenance

## Backing up your container

To backup your data, configuration and logs, follow these simple steps:

### Step 1: Stop the currently running container

```bash
docker stop solr
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose stop solr
```

### Step 2: Run the backup command

We need to mount two volumes in a container we will use to create the backup: a directory on your host to store the backup in, and the volumes from the container we just stopped so we can access the data.

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/solr-backups:/backups --volumes-from solr busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/solr:latest /backups/latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/solr-backups:/backups --volumes-from `docker-compose ps -q solr` busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/solr:latest /backups/latest
```

## Restoring a backup

Restoring a backup is as simple as mounting the backup as volumes in the container.

```bash
docker run -v /path/to/solr-backups/latest:/bitnami/solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  volumes:
    - /path/to/solr-backups/latest:/bitnami/solr
```

## Upgrade this image

Bitnami provides up-to-date versions of solr, including security patches, soon after they are made upstream. We recommend that you follow these steps to upgrade your container.

### Step 1: Get the updated image

```bash
docker pull bitnami/solr:latest
```

or if you're using Docker Compose, update the value of the image property to
`bitnami/solr:latest`.

### Step 2: Stop and backup the currently running container

Before continuing, you should backup your container's data, configuration and logs.

Follow the steps on [creating a backup](#backing-up-your-container).

### Step 3: Remove the currently running container

```bash
docker rm -v solr
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose rm -v solr
```

### Step 4: Run the new image

Re-create your container from the new image, [restoring your backup](#restoring-a-backup) if necessary.

```bash
docker run --name solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose start solr
```
# Contributing

We'd love for you to contribute to this container. You can request new features by creating an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/issues), or submit a [pull request](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/pulls) with your contribution.

# Issues

If you encountered a problem running this container, you can file an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/issues). For us to provide better support, be sure to include the following information in your issue:

- Host OS and version
- Docker version (`docker version`)
- Output of `docker info`
- Version of this container (`echo $BITNAMI_IMAGE_VERSION` inside the container)
- The command you used to run the container, and any relevant output you saw (masking any sensitive information)

# Community

Most real time communication happens in the `#containers` channel at [bitnami-oss.slack.com](http://bitnami-oss.slack.com); you can sign up at [slack.oss.bitnami.com](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com).

Discussions are archived at [bitnami-oss.slackarchive.io](https://bitnami-oss.slackarchive.io).

# License
Copyright (c) 2016 Bitnami

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.

Commit message:

Add Kubernetes TL;DR; section

README.md, after:

[![CircleCI](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/tree/master.svg?style=shield)](https://circleci.com/gh/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/tree/master)
[![Slack](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com/badge.svg)](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com)
[![Kubectl](https://img.shields.io/badge/kubectl-Available-green.svg)](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/master/kubernetes.yml)
# What is Apache Solr?

> Solr is the popular, blazing-fast, open source enterprise search platform built on Apache Lucene.

[http://lucene.apache.org/solr/](http://lucene.apache.org/solr/)

# TL;DR;

```bash
docker run --name solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

## Docker Compose

```
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
```

## Kubernetes

> **WARNING**: This is a beta configuration, currently unsupported.

Get the raw URL pointing to the kubernetes.yml manifest and use kubectl to create the resources on your Kubernetes cluster like so:

```bash
$ kubectl create -f https://raw.githubusercontent.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/master/kubernetes.yml
```

# Why use Bitnami Images?

* Bitnami closely tracks upstream source changes and promptly publishes new versions of this image using our automated systems.
* With Bitnami images the latest bug fixes and features are available as soon as possible.
* Bitnami containers, virtual machines and cloud images use the same components and configuration approach - making it easy to switch between formats based on your project needs.
* Bitnami images are built on CircleCI and automatically pushed to the Docker Hub.
* All our images are based on [minideb](https://github.com/bitnami/minideb) a minimalist Debian based container image which gives you a small base container image and the familiarity of a leading linux distribution.

# Get this image

The recommended way to get the Bitnami solr Docker Image is to pull the prebuilt image from the [Docker Hub Registry](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/solr).

```bash
docker pull bitnami/solr:latest
```

To use a specific version, you can pull a versioned tag. You can view the [list of available versions](https://hub.docker.com/r/bitnami/solr/tags/) in the Docker Hub Registry.

```bash
docker pull bitnami/solr:[TAG]
```

If you wish, you can also build the image yourself.

```bash
docker build -t bitnami/solr:latest https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr.git
```

# Persisting your application

If you remove every container and volume all your data will be lost, and the next time you run the image the application will be reinitialized. To avoid this loss of data, you should mount a volume that will persist even after the container is removed. If you are using docker-compose your data will be persistent as long as you don't remove `application_data` data volumes. If you have run the containers manually or you want to mount the folders with persistent data in your host follow the next steps:

> **Note!** If you have already started using your application, follow the steps on [backing](#backing-up-your-container) up to pull the data from your running container down to your host.

The image exposes a volume at `/bitnami/solr` for the solr data and configurations. For persistence you can mount a directory at this location from your host. If the mounted directory is empty, it will be initialized on the first run.

```bash
docker run -v /path/to/solr-persistence:/bitnami/solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  volumes:
    - /path/to/solr-persistence:/bitnami/solr
```

# Connecting to other containers

Using [Docker container networking](https://docs.docker.com/engine/userguide/networking/), a MariaDB server running inside a container can easily be accessed by your application containers.

Containers attached to the same network can communicate with each other using the container name as the hostname.

## Using the Command Line

### Step 1: Create a network

```bash
$ docker network create solr-network --driver bridge
```

### Step 2: Launch the solr container within your network

Use the `--network <NETWORK>` argument to the `docker run` command to attach the container to the `solr-network` network.

```bash
docker run --name solr-node1 --network solr-network bitnami/solr:latest
```

### Step 3: Run another containers

We can launch another containers using the same flag (`--network NETWORK`) in the `docker run` command. If you also set a name to your container, you will be able to use it as hostname in your network.


## Using Docker Compose

When not specified, Docker Compose automatically sets up a new network and attaches all deployed services to that network. However, we will explicitly define a new bridge network named solr-network.

```yaml
version: '2'

networks:
  solr-network:
    driver: bridge

services:
  solr-node1:
    image: bitnami/solr:latest
    networks:
      - solr-network
    ports:
      - '8983:8983'
  solr-node2:
    image: bitnami/solr:latest
    networks:
      - solr-network
    ports:
      - '8984:8984'
```

Then, launch the containers using:

```bash
$ docker-compose up -d
```


# Configuration

## Environment variables

When you start the solr image, you can adjust the configuration of the instance by passing one or more environment variables either on the docker-compose file or on the docker run command line. The following environment values are provided to custom Solr:

- `SOLR_PORT`: Port used by Solr server. Default: **8983**
- `SOLR_SERVER_DIRECTORY`: Specify the Solr server directory. Default: **server**
- `SOLR_CORE`: Core name to create at first run. By default, it will not create a core. (E.g.: '**my_core**')
- `SOLR_CORE_CONF_DIR`: Configuration directory to copy when creating a new core. Default: **data_driven_schema_configs**

### Specifying Environment Variables using Docker Compose

```yaml
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  environment:
    - SOLR_CORE=my_core
```

### Specifying Environment Variables on the Docker command line

```bash
$ docker run -d -e SOLR_CORE=my_core --name solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

## Using your Apache Solr Cores configuration files

In order to load your own configuration files, you will have to make them available to the container. You can do it mounting a [volume](https://docs.docker.com/engine/tutorials/dockervolumes/) in the desired location and setting the environment variable with the customized value (as it is pointed above, the default value is **data_driven_schema_configs**).

### Using Docker Compose

```yaml
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  environment:
    - SOLR_CORE_CONF_DIR=/path/to/your/confDir
  volumes:
    - '/local/path/to/your/confDir:/container/path/to/your/confDir'
```

# Logging

The Bitnami solr Docker image sends the container logs to the `stdout`. To view the logs:

```bash
docker logs solr
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose logs solr
```

You can configure the containers [logging driver](https://docs.docker.com/engine/admin/logging/overview/) using the `--log-driver` option if you wish to consume the container logs differently. In the default configuration docker uses the `json-file` driver.

# Maintenance

## Backing up your container

To backup your data, configuration and logs, follow these simple steps:

### Step 1: Stop the currently running container

```bash
docker stop solr
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose stop solr
```

### Step 2: Run the backup command

We need to mount two volumes in a container we will use to create the backup: a directory on your host to store the backup in, and the volumes from the container we just stopped so we can access the data.

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/solr-backups:/backups --volumes-from solr busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/solr:latest /backups/latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker run --rm -v /path/to/solr-backups:/backups --volumes-from `docker-compose ps -q solr` busybox \
  cp -a /bitnami/solr:latest /backups/latest
```

## Restoring a backup

Restoring a backup is as simple as mounting the backup as volumes in the container.

```bash
docker run -v /path/to/solr-backups/latest:/bitnami/solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```
solr:
  image: bitnami/solr:latest
  volumes:
    - /path/to/solr-backups/latest:/bitnami/solr
```

## Upgrade this image

Bitnami provides up-to-date versions of solr, including security patches, soon after they are made upstream. We recommend that you follow these steps to upgrade your container.

### Step 1: Get the updated image

```bash
docker pull bitnami/solr:latest
```

or if you're using Docker Compose, update the value of the image property to
`bitnami/solr:latest`.

### Step 2: Stop and backup the currently running container

Before continuing, you should backup your container's data, configuration and logs.

Follow the steps on [creating a backup](#backing-up-your-container).

### Step 3: Remove the currently running container

```bash
docker rm -v solr
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose rm -v solr
```

### Step 4: Run the new image

Re-create your container from the new image, [restoring your backup](#restoring-a-backup) if necessary.

```bash
docker run --name solr bitnami/solr:latest
```

or using Docker Compose:

```bash
docker-compose start solr
```
# Contributing

We'd love for you to contribute to this container. You can request new features by creating an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/issues), or submit a [pull request](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/pulls) with your contribution.

# Issues

If you encountered a problem running this container, you can file an [issue](https://github.com/bitnami/bitnami-docker-solr/issues). For us to provide better support, be sure to include the following information in your issue:

- Host OS and version
- Docker version (`docker version`)
- Output of `docker info`
- Version of this container (`echo $BITNAMI_IMAGE_VERSION` inside the container)
- The command you used to run the container, and any relevant output you saw (masking any sensitive information)

# Community

Most real time communication happens in the `#containers` channel at [bitnami-oss.slack.com](http://bitnami-oss.slack.com); you can sign up at [slack.oss.bitnami.com](http://slack.oss.bitnami.com).

Discussions are archived at [bitnami-oss.slackarchive.io](https://bitnami-oss.slackarchive.io).

# License
Copyright (c) 2016 Bitnami

Licensed under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the "License");
you may not use this file except in compliance with the License.
You may obtain a copy of the License at

    http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing, software
distributed under the License is distributed on an "AS IS" BASIS,
WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY KIND, either express or implied.
See the License for the specific language governing permissions and
limitations under the License.
